1.What is the difference between inline, block, and inline-block elements?

inline: Doesn't start on a new line, width/height cannot be set.
block: Starts on a new line, width/height can be set.
inline-block: Behaves like inline but allows setting width/height.


2.What are CSS Grid and Flexbox? Compare them.

CSS Grid: Two-dimensional layout system for rows and columns.
Flexbox: One-dimensional layout system for rows or columns.

3.What is the difference between visibility: hidden and display: none?

visibility: hidden: The element is hidden but still occupies space.
display: none: The element is removed from the layout and doesn’t occupy space.

4.Explain the z-index property in CSS.

Determines the stack order of elements.
Elements with a higher z-index appear in front of those with lower values.

5.What are the different types of CSS selectors?

Universal Selector (*)
Type Selector (div, p)
Class Selector (.class)
ID Selector (#id)
Attribute Selector ([type="text"])
Grouping Selector (h1, h2)


What is the difference between position: sticky and position: fixed?

sticky: Behaves like relative until it reaches a scroll threshold, then sticks like fixed.
fixed: Always remains fixed relative to the viewport.

What are CSS animations? How are they different from transitions?

Animations: Allow keyframes for complex animations (@keyframes).
Transitions: Define changes in styles over a period of time.

div {
    transition: background-color 0.5s;
    animation: slide 2s infinite;
}

@keyframes slide {
    from { transform: translateX(0); }
    to { transform: translateX(100px); }
}
What are pseudo-elements in CSS? How are they different from pseudo-classes?

Pseudo-elements: Style specific parts of an element (::before, ::after).
Pseudo-classes: Style elements in a specific state (:hover, :first-child).
What are the differences between min-width, max-width, and width?

width: Fixed width of the element.
min-width: Sets the minimum width an element can shrink to.
max-width: Sets the maximum width an element can grow to.
Explain the concept of specificity in CSS.

Determines which CSS rule applies when there are conflicts.
Inline styles: Highest (1000)
IDs: High (100)
Classes, attributes, pseudo-classes: Medium (10)
Elements, pseudo-elements: Low (1)
What is the difference between inline-style and external CSS?

Inline styles are defined directly on an element, while external CSS is defined in separate .css files.
What is the difference between overflow: hidden, scroll, and auto?

hidden: Content outside the container is not visible.
scroll: Scrollbars always appear.
auto: Scrollbars appear only when needed.
How would you implement a responsive design without using frameworks like Bootstrap?

Use CSS techniques like:
Media queries.
CSS Grid and Flexbox.
Relative units like %, em, and vh/vw.
Practical Scenarios
How do you center an element vertically and horizontally?

Using Flexbox:
css
Copy code
.container {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
    height: 100vh;
}
Using Grid:

.container {
    display: grid;
    place-items: center;
    height: 100vh;
}
How do you make a website mobile-friendly?

Use responsive layouts, media queries, and relative units.
What is the difference between nth-child and nth-of-type?

nth-child: Targets the element based on its position in the parent.
nth-of-type: Targets the element based on its type and position.
How would you style a button when it’s hovered?

css
Copy code
button:hover {
    background-color: blue;
    color: white;
}
How do you optimize CSS for performance?

Minimize and combine CSS files.
Use shorthand properties.
Avoid redundant selectors.
